# 2.1 Origins

All characters are born in the game. They grow, fail and learn long before they are suitable for playing. This goes for your character as well. You need to know where did your character came from and how it fits into existing world - or in other words you need to know your character's origin.

Lucky (or not) for you it's actually campaign designer (or GM) who should have came up with all origins and their related stories in adavance - leaving you with some conrete options. While choosing your character's origin you should look for:

- Theme - good origin is descriptive enough to give you proper indication of who was your character before you started playing it. Take 'Criminal' for example. You already know that your character will be shady, law breaking and possibly cunning.

- Hook - Every origin should came with a 'hook' - story, chapter 0 - that will tie your character to the main plot in a meaningful, personal way.

- Starting skills - all origins brings handful of skills that your character acquired while growing up. Although no one will forbid your character to become world's most famous political leader - having 'Noble' as your origin will certainly put you in the right direction from the very beginning.

- Trouble - a flow, bad reputation or nemesis - something that will fallow your character from the day 1 - now and than causing unexpected problems.

Typically each campaign should have at least these 5 most archetypical origins available for you to choose:

## Criminal
Your character was raised on the streets of big city - and become acustomed to law braking and trading.

## Noble
Your character carry a noble title and it's face and name are recognizable across continent. Over the years (s)he learned about importance of political strugle and the influence of wealth and power.

## Outlander
Your character grew up away from big cities and conforts of civilisation.

## Devout
Your character was raised by religious organisation where (s)he become true worhiper by fully embracing the faith.
