# 3. Playing the game 

Once yours heros are ready - all you need to do is pick up scenario you want to play. 

## What is Scenario? 
Scenario is a single adventure with clear set of objectives. Each scenario is defined by custom *map* and carefully constructed *event's deck*. 

**Event's deck** consists multiple event's card that represents active part of scenario. They can be anything from narratives and descriptive events that are meant to set the scene to more direct events that forces players to make *abilities tests*.

**Map** is a set of location cards that are meant to restrict player to a certain space while playing scenario. Locations may be known upfront or kept hidden - to be revealed in the specific moment during scenario. 

## How to start? 
For each scenario you should follow its own setup description. Typically, you will be instructed how to setup map and events deck. 

Once you have that sorted out - you will follow repeatable, relatively simple order of actions: 

1) reveal single event from event's deck and resolve its effect 
2) resolve players actions
3) resolve non-playable characters (NPCs) actions 

This sequence should be repeated unless given scenario is either won or lost.

You can win a scenario only if you met **all of** scenario's objectives.

You can lose if one of following will happen:
- specific event will occurred indicating the end of the game, 
- event's deck will run off of cards,
- all players will be killed.

## Taking actions
Each character has 2 actions.
- Move to connected location
- Interact with NPC or objects in your location
- Fight
- Use your skills

## We want to have GM!
Optionally **events deck** can be acted out by GM - who should take his turn instead of revealing cards from events deck. You can be ok with letting your GM to do whatever (s)he likes or you can put some additional constrains with these possible GM variants:

- GM can do what ever (s)he like - including instantly killing you all with a meteor shower,
- GM has events deck at disposal - but can only play one card from events deck at the time - during its turn,
- GM draw 5 cards on hand - and can only play one card from hand during its turn.

 