# 2. Forging a hero

In Freaya RPG - each player controls a **hero** - carefully designed character defined by set of abilities, skills and equipement. In order to play scenario you need to have one - either created by yourself or picked up from predefined heroes set.

Remember that each choice you will make during creation process is going to influence your playstale and game experience. Also not every combination will be as successful as others - so don't expect to get everything right at the very first time.

> **Tip**  
> Some scenarios will ofer predefined set of heros. You can chose one of them or treat it as a starting point for further customisation.

## Creation process

Character creation process should roughly look like this:
1. Came up with an aspiration
2. Deciding on your role
3. Choose fitting origin
4. Adjust your abilities scores
5. Pick up the right skills
6. Take a name

## Aspiration
All begins here. If you want to create truly great hero - you need to have something to work with, an idea that you and your friends can build upon and evolve - an aspiration. *Dreadful warlock*, *noble knight*, *wondering wizard*, *daring pirate* - all would do, all roughly describe what you would like your characters to be and how you would like to play it.

## Role
One thing you need to keep in mind is how you want to organize your play. In most scenarios playing solo with a single hero would be extremaly hard - as you would need multiple different abilities to ensure success. Here are some roles to think about while making a hero:

### Front linner
Front linners are all about surviving close combat encounters to buy time for others to move narration forward.

### Scout
Most of the scenarios will leave you with quite a few locations to explore within limited amout of turns. Scouts main focuses is exploration.

### Support
Supports main focus is to provide healling and bonuses to ensure others heroes will succed in their efforts.
