## **2.2 Origins**

All characters are born in the game. They grow, fail and learn long before you can actualy play them. This goes for your hero as well. You need to know where did your hero came from and how it fits into existing world - or in the other words you need to know its origin.

Lucky (or not) for you it's actually scenario (campaign) designer (or GM) who should have came up with all origins and their related stories in adavance - leaving you with some conrete options. While choosing your character's origin you should look for:

- **Theme** - good origin is descriptive enough to give you proper indication of who was your character before you started playing it. Take 'Criminal' for example. You already know that your character grew up as shady, law breaking and possibly cunning.

- **Hook** - origin should came with a 'hook' - story, chapter 0 - that will tie your character to the main plot in a meaningful, personal way.

- **Starting skills** - all origins brings handful of skills that your character learned while growing up. Although no one will forbid your character to become world's most famous political leader - having 'Noble' as your origin will certainly put you in the right direction from the very beginning.

- **Trouble** - a flow, bad reputation or nemesis - something that will fallow your character from the day one - now and than causing unexpected problems.

- **Starting Eqipement** - each origin will provide you with handfull of usefull items.

Typically each campaign should have at least these 5 most archetypical origins available for you to choose:

## **Criminal**
Your hero was raised on the streets of big city - and become acustomed to law braking and trading.

### Starting skills:
Mobility, Alertness, Deception, Combat

## **Noble**
Your hero carry a noble title and it's face and name are recognizable across continent. Over the years (s)he learned about importance of political strugle and the influence of wealth and power.

### Starting skills:
Combat, Inspire, Ready Defense, Deception

## **Outlander**
Your hero grew up away from big cities and conforts of civilisation.

### Starting skills:

Mobility, Toughness, Medicine, Alertness

## **Acolyte**
Your hero was raised by religious organisation where (s)he become true worhiper by fully embracing the faith.

### Starting skills:
Faith

### Optional skills:
Medicine, Inspire, 

