# 3. Playing the game

## 3.1 Key concepts
Once your heroes are ready - all you need to do is pick up scenario you want to play. 

### Scenario
*Scenario* is a single adventure designed with clear set of objectives - thay may or may not be part of a larger campaign.  Each scenario has its own *map* and carefully constructed *event's deck*. 

### Event's deck
*Event's deck* consists of multiple event's card that represents active part of scenario. They can be anything from narratives and descriptive events that are meant to set the scene to more direct events that forces players into **tests**.

### Map
*Map* is a set of locations that are meant to restrict player to a certain space while playing a scenario. Locations may be known upfront or kept hidden - to be revealed in the specific moment during scenario.

## 3.2 How to start  
For each scenario you should follow its own setup description - typically, you will be instructed how to setup map and events deck. 

## 3.3 Wining and losing
As you progress trough scenario you should look for an indication of win. You can find it while solving particular mystery or defeating elite enemy.

### Time is of the esence

Once you start the scenario you're on the cloack - as the once you reveal last event card it will typicaly inform you about your defeat or instruct you to move to the next scenario with significant disadvantages.

## 3.4 Round sequence

Playing scenarios is all about following these repeatable, relatively simple order of actions: 

1) Events Phase - reveal single event from event's deck and resolve its effect on all heroes
2) Hero Phase - resolve players actions
3) Environmnet Phase - resolve non-playable characters (NPCs) actions 

All above actions resolved in this order is called a *round*.  You will play new rounds unless given scenario is either won or lost.

## 3.5 Events Phase
At the begining of each round players must reveal single event card from event deck and they all must resolve its effect.

Typically an event card will add a hostile character to given location or introduce new narration with associated ability test.

> **Example**  
'*Distant voices begins to echo in your heads causing waves of unberable pain.*' Roll a check with difficulty of 4. If you fail take 1 wound, if you fail by 3 or more - take 2 wounds instead. Free invokes - Will Power.

### Roll Check
Each roll check has an assigned difficuly value and a set of available situational free invokes. First you need to count all negative aspects that the game can invoke against your hero. Than you can invoke positive situational aspects that are allowed that your hero has. You can also invoke locations or items aspects if possible. Substracting nagative invokes from the positive - form your roll chech modifier.

Next step is to roll a dice and apply calculated modifier - that is you roll check score.

Last thing is substracting roll check difficulty from check score that will form a outcome. The grater the outcome is the better result for the hero - '0' indicating a success.

>**Example**  
Jim's hero needs to get at least 4 on it's roll check to avoid being hurt. Jim is invoking a 'Will Power' aspect that his hero has, and a 'Hope' aspect of the 'Item of Faith' item - to get himself a '+2' modifier for the check. Unfortunatley Jim's hero is in a location with 'Dread' aspect that needs to be invoke against his hero lowering the modifier to a '+1'. Than Jim is rolling a dice - getting a 2 as the result. Check's output is calculated 2 (dice result) - 4 (check's difficulty) + 1 (Will Power invoke) +1 (Hope invoke) - 1 (Dread invoke) resulting into -1 - which indicates failiure by 1. Because of the text on '*Distance Voices*' - Jim's hero is force to take 2 wounds. 


Here you can see descriptions of tests dificulty values:

| Difficulty | Value | Chances |
|:----------:|:-----:|:-------:|
|  very easy |   1   |   ~83%  |
|    easy    |   2   |   ~60%  |
|   medium   |   3   |   ~50%  |
|    hard    |      |   ~33%  |
|  very hard |   5   |   ~17%  |
|    epic    |   6   |   ~8%   |

## 3.6 Taking actions

Once an event effect is resolved it is heros time to take actions. Each hero can make a standard and a fast action. Turn order is irrelevant as long as both actions are taken one after another.

Actions mark as *interruptible* can only be perform if the hero occupied location free of hostile characters.

Actions mark as *fast* do not spent any of available hero's action and can be made anytime during the turn.

In it's turn hero can:
- move (interruptible)
- use an item
- use a talent
- investigate a mystery
- interact with NPC
- rest (interruptible)

### Movement
As long as there are no hostile characters in the hero's location hero can freely move to a connection location as one action, otherwise hero success depends on a Agility test. Difficulty of the test is calculated as higest Agility value among all hostile creatures plus the number of these characters.

> **Example**  
Jim's hero is bearly alive and there are 2 giant rats in his location. Jim decides that it would be best for his hero to leave this location so he need to make an Agility test. Since Giant Rat agility value is 3 and there are 2 hostile characters in the location difficulty of the test is 5. Jim's rolled +2 combining with his hero's agility of 3 makes a total of 5 which indicates success - his hero left his current location.

### Rest
If the location is free of hostile characters hero can spent both of his actions to remove one wound and refresh all his talents.

### Fight
If your hero is in location with hostile characters - items labeled as weapons can be used to invoke *Fight* action. Each weapon is explicite about what skill should be used for attack and what are the consequences in case of success.

>**Example**  
Jim's hero is in location with a giant rat enemy. Hero possese a sword item that says: '*Fight* using Combat. If you succed add one wound to target character, if you succed by 1 or more add 2 wounds instead.'  
Jim decide to fight the rat. Because rat's combat is equal to 2 - difficuly of the test is also set to 2. Jim is using his hero Bravery talent to boost his combat value +1 having total of 3, than he rolls the dice and gets +2. Test's output is 5 = 2 (hero's combat) + 1 (Bravery) + 2 (dice roll) indicating succes by 3 and resulting in adding 2 wounds to the rat.

### Investigate
If your hero is in location with a mystery - during its turn hero can invoke investigate action. To do so hero needs to chose one of the remaining secrets that define given mystery. A secret is typically an insight test with its own difficuly. Upon succiding - secret is removed from a mystery. When all secrets are removed from a mystery it is considered solved and a resolution effect should be resolved.

>**Example**  
Jim's hero is in location with attached mystery. There are two secrets left. One if an Insight test with a diffucly of 4 and the other is Agility test with a difficulty of 3. Since Agiliti skill is higher for Jim's hero, Jim decides that his hero will investigate 

## 3.7 Living environment
At the very end all other characters that are not controlled by players should take their associated actions.

 