## 3.4 Round sequence

Playing scenarios is all about following these repeatable, relatively simple order of actions: 

1) Events Phase - reveal single event from event's deck and resolve its effect on all heroes
2) Hero Phase - resolve players actions
3) Environmnet Phase - resolve non-playable characters (NPCs) actions 

All above actions resolved in this order is called a *round*.  You will play new rounds unless given scenario is either won or lost.

## 3.5 Events Phase
At the begining of each round players must reveal single event card from event deck and they all must resolve its effect.

Typically an event card will add a hostile character to given location or introduce new narration with associated ability test.

> **Example**  
'*Distant voices begins to echo in your heads causing waves of unberable pain.*' Take a *personality* test with difficulty of 4. If you fail take 1 wound.

### Skill tests
Each test has a accosiated skill and assigned difficuly value. To perform a *skill test* player needs to roll a dice that acts as a modifier for hero's original skill value. If the modified value is equal or grater than test's difficulty 
test ends with success.

Before rolling the dice hero can boost tested skill using his talents.

>**Example**  
Jim's hero needs to get at least 4 on it's *personality test* to avoid being hurt. Hero's personality is 4 and Jim's decide to use Bravery talent to boost his hero's personality by 1. Than Jim rolls the dices and gets -1. Test's output is 4 = 4 (hero's Personality) + 1 (Bravery) - 1 (dice roll) indicating hero's success.

Here you can see descriptions of tests dificulty values:

| Difficulty | Value | Chances |
|:----------:|:-----:|:-------:|
|  very easy |   1   |   ~83%  |
|    easy    |   2   |   ~60%  |
|   medium   |   3   |   ~50%  |
|    hard    |   4   |   ~33%  |
|  very hard |   5   |   ~17%  |
|    epic    |   6   |   ~8%   |

## 3.6 Taking actions

Once an event effect is resolved it is heros time to take actions. Each hero can spent two actions. Turn order is irrelevant as long as both actions are taken one after another.

Actions mark as *interruptible* can only be perform if the hero occupied location free of hostile characters.

Actions mark as *fast* do not spent any of available hero's action and can be made anytime during the turn.

In it's turn hero can:
- move (interruptible)
- use an item
- use a talent
- investigate a mystery
- interact with NPC
- rest (interruptible)

### Movement
As long as there are no hostile characters in the hero's location hero can freely move to a connection location as one action, otherwise hero success depends on a Agility test. Difficulty of the test is calculated as higest Agility value among all hostile creatures plus the number of these characters.

> **Example**  
Jim's hero is bearly alive and there are 2 giant rats in his location. Jim decides that it would be best for his hero to leave this location so he need to make an Agility test. Since Giant Rat agility value is 3 and there are 2 hostile characters in the location difficulty of the test is 5. Jim's rolled +2 combining with his hero's agility of 3 makes a total of 5 which indicates success - his hero left his current location.

### Rest
If the location is free of hostile characters hero can spent both of his actions to remove one wound and refresh all his talents.

### Fight
If your hero is in location with hostile characters - items labeled as weapons can be used to invoke *Fight* action. Each weapon is explicite about what skill should be used for attack and what are the consequences in case of success.

>**Example**  
Jim's hero is in location with a giant rat enemy. Hero possese a sword item that says: '*Fight* using Combat. If you succed add one wound to target character, if you succed by 1 or more add 2 wounds instead.'  
Jim decide to fight the rat. Because rat's combat is equal to 2 - difficuly of the test is also set to 2. Jim is using his hero Bravery talent to boost his combat value +1 having total of 3, than he rolls the dice and gets +2. Test's output is 5 = 2 (hero's combat) + 1 (Bravery) + 2 (dice roll) indicating succes by 3 and resulting in adding 2 wounds to the rat.

### Investigate
If your hero is in location with a mystery - during its turn hero can invoke investigate action. To do so hero needs to chose one of the remaining secrets that define given mystery. A secret is typically an insight test with its own difficuly. Upon succiding - secret is removed from a mystery. When all secrets are removed from a mystery it is considered solved and a resolution effect should be resolved.

>**Example**  
Jim's hero is in location with attached mystery. There are two secrets left. One if an Insight test with a diffucly of 4 and the other is Agility test with a difficulty of 3. Since Agiliti skill is higher for Jim's hero, Jim decides that his hero will investigate 

## 3.7 Living environment
At the very end all other characters that are not controlled by players should take their associated actions.