# 4 Magic & Spells

In Freya magic has very dark nature. It is considered as a shortcut or cheat to achieve something that others could not. If there is some general rule of using magic is that *there is always a price to pay*.

## 4.1 Casting a spell
New spells are aquired in the similar way as items, with the exception of not holding an invetory slot. The more powerfull spell is the higher insight is required to be able to use it. Some talents may passivly decreased required insight level.

To cast a spell Hero needs to invoke *Cast* action on the choosen spell. Than hero needs to conmmit desire number of talents or items with associated magic power increasing spell power, and resolve the spell effect based on the commited power.

>**Example**  
Jim's decided to cast 'Heal' spell that says: '*Cast. Interruptible. Choose a hero in your space this hero heals the number of wounds equal to the spell power.*'

## 4.2 Gathering the power
Talents are the easiest to accumulate and the most flexible to use, but not the only possible source of power. Items often holds magic powers that can be harvest by wizards. Some are usless upon use, other are capable of sustaining power almost indefinetly. The last source of power are locations. Indeed some old places can store suprisingly large amouts of powers that can be used to unleashe most devastating of spells.

## 4.1 Rituals
Rituals are usually powerfull spells that requires caster full focus and atention. They are of subtle and complex nature. They cannot be performed if there are hostile characters in the caster's location. They often do not require a dice roll.

## 4.2 Evocations
Invocations are simple and rought spells that can be used in rush of battle. They are easier to master but less predictable than the rituals.

## 4.5 Spells

### Practical Shield
*Item. Spell. Evocation.*   
*Cast.* Choose a hero in your space - first x wounds that would be added to this hero until your next turn are cancelled. X is spell power.

### Energy Burst
*Item. Spell. Evocation.*  
*Cast. Fight.* Attack power is equal to 3 + spell power and will do damage equal to spell power.

### Imbumee Energy
*Item. Spell. Evocation.*
*Cast.* Spend two spell power, gain additional action.

### Heal
*Item. Spell. Ritual.*  
*Cast. Interruptible.* Choose a hero in your space this hero heals the number of wounds equal to the spell power.

### Divination
*Item. Spell. Ritual.*  
*Cast. Interruptible.* Choose a secret in your space. Investigte with power of 3 + spell power, or reveal a location spell power away from you.

### Future seeing
*Item. Spell. Ritual.*  
*Cast. Interruptible.* Reveal only to yourself X Events cards and return them into event's deck in the exact same order. X is equal to spell power.

### Summoning
*Item. Spell. Ritual.*  
*Cast. Interruptible.* Summons an infernal creature. Creature type depends on spell power.

### Curse
*Item. Spell. Ritual.*  
*Cast. Interruptible.* Choose a character in connected location. Target character will suffer -1 to Combat and Agility values for the remainders of x rounds. X is the number of spell power.

### Storm
*Item. Spell. Ritual.*  
*Cast. Interruptible.*  
Choose a connected location.